Update Acceptable/Deprecating/Forks/Versions docs (#16606)
Homebrew/brew: docs/Deprecating-Disabling-and-Removing-Formulae.md

The most common reasons for deprecation are when the upstream project is deprecated, unmaintained, or archived.

> Formulae should only be be deprecated if at least one of the following are true:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Formulae should only be be deprecated if at least one of the following is true:
```

- the formula does not build on any of our supported macOS versions and on Linux
- the formula has outstanding CVEs

> Formulae with dependents should not be deprecated until or when all dependents are also deprecated.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this a bit redundant with the previous block?

Reviewer: It makes sense to me as written. Though I think `should` should be changed to `cannot` since we literally won't let you do such a thing with our audits.

Author: ```suggestion
Formulae with dependents cannot not be deprecated until or when all dependents are also deprecated.
```

The most common reasons for deprecation are when the upstream project is deprecated, unmaintained, or archived.

> Formulae should only be be deprecated if at least one of the following are true:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Formulae should only be deprecated if at least one of the following are true:
```

- the formula does not build on any of our supported macOS versions and on Linux
- the formula has outstanding CVEs

> - the formula has [zero installs in the last 90 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/90d/)

Reviewer 4: We have a bunch of reasons listed under "Deprecate and Disable Reasons" that don't match these, e.g. upstream EOL.

Author: @Bo98 Can you suggest a wording change if you consider this blocking, I have no idea what you're asking for here.

Reviewer 4: GitHub won't let me but I guess the main one to add would be

```
- the software installed has been discontinued or abandoned upstream
```

I think all of the existing reason symbols (`:unsupported`, `:unmaintained`, `:repo_archived`, `: deprecated_upstream`, ...) really boil down to that as they all are just rewordings of the exact same core reason.

`:checksum_mismatch` is a bit of an odd one. Not sure if we actually deprecate/disable formulae for that?

> - the formula has [zero installs in the last 90 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/90d/)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- the formula has [zero installs in the last 90 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/90d/)
- the software installed by the formula has been discontinued or abandoned upstream
```

Formulae with dependents should not be deprecated until or when all dependents are also deprecated.

To deprecate a formula, add a `deprecate!` call. This call should include a deprecation date (in the ISO 8601 format) and a deprecation reason:

```ruby
deprecate! date: "YYYY-MM-DD", because: :reason
```

> The `date` parameter should be set to the date that the project or version became (or will become) deprecated. If there is no clear date but the formula needs to be deprecated, use today's date. If the `date` parameter is set to a date in the future, the formula will not become deprecated until that date. This can be useful if the upstream developers have indicated a date when the project or version will stop being supported. Do not backdate the `date` parameter as it causes confusion for users and maintainers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `date` parameter should be set to the date that the deprecation period should begin, which is usually today's date. If the `date` parameter is set to a date in the future, the formula will not become deprecated until that date. This can be useful if the upstream developers have indicated a date when the project or version will stop being supported. Do not backdate the `date` parameter as it causes confusion for users and maintainers.
```

The most common reasons for disabling a formula are:

- it cannot be built from source (meaning no new bottles can be built)
- it has been deprecated for a long time
- the upstream repository has been removed
- the project has no license

> Popular formulae (i.e. have more than 999 [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/)) should not be disabled without a deprecation period of at least six months even if e.g. they do not build from source and do not have a license.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Popular formulae (i.e. have more than 999 [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/)) should be deprecated for at least six months even if e.g. they do not build from source and do not have a license before being disabled.
```

Reviewer: To match the same wording I suggested for casks.

> Unpopular formulae (i.e. have fewer than 1000 [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/)) can be deprecated immediately for any of the reasons above e.g. they cannot be built from source on any supported macOS version or Linux.

Reviewer 4: Everything can be deprecated immediately - does this mean disabled immediately?

Author: @Bo98 I don't think so but I'm open to opinions to the contrary.

Reviewer 5: It reads to me with the same conflict as Bo

1. Popular formula > Deprecate > wait 6 months > Disable
2. Unpopular formula > Deprecate > then what?

It's unclear how these would be handled differently, so I would assume unpopular formula should actually be "disabled" immediately.

Author: Ah, reread, yeh, this should be disabled I think.

> Popular formulae (i.e. have more than 999 [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/)) should be deprecated for at least six months even if e.g. they do not build from source and do not have a license before being disabled.
> 
> Unpopular formulae (i.e. have fewer than 1000 [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/)) can be deprecated immediately for any of the reasons above e.g. they cannot be built from source on any supported macOS version or Linux.
> 
> **Note: disabled formulae in `homebrew/core` will be automatically removed one year after their disable date.**
> 
> Unpopular formulae (i.e. have fewer than 1000 [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/)) can be manually removed three months after their disable date.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Formulae having _more than 999_ [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/) should be _deprecated for at least six months_ even if, e.g., they do not build from source and do not have a license before being disabled.

Formulae having _fewer than 1000_ [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/) can be _deprecated immediately_ for any of the reasons above, e.g., they cannot be built from source on any supported macOS version or Linux.

**Note: disabled formulae in `homebrew/core` will be automatically removed one year after their disable date.**

Formulae having fewer than 1000 [analytics installs in the last 30 days](https://formulae.brew.sh/analytics/install/30d/) can be manually removed three months after their disable date.
```

The most common reasons for disabling a formula are:

> - it cannot be built from source (meaning no new bottles can be built)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- it cannot be built from source on all supported OS versions (meaning no new bottles can be built)
```

So that we don't instant disable a formula because it fails on one OS.

- it has been deprecated for a long time

> - the upstream repository has been removed

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

This is usually deprecation rather than instant disable as the bottles still work. If we need to build new bottles, the above "cannot be built from source" reason covers this.

> - the project has no license

Reviewer 4: Not a suggestion to change, but just to discuss:

Do we still want to treat this differently to the "non-open-source license" case?

Author: I think so as there's often ambiguity here.

A formula should be removed if it does not meet our criteria for [acceptable formulae](Acceptable-Formulae.md) or [versioned formulae](Versions.md), has a non-open-source license, or has been disabled for over a year.

> **Note: disabled formulae in `homebrew/core` will be automatically removed one year after their disable date.**

Reviewer 4: Thoughts on making this 6 months? That would bring the total deprecation + disable cycle to 1 year for popular formulae.

Author: Seems reasonable but: until we've update the code accordingly the docs should probably be kept correct?

Reviewer 4: This seems like a good PR to discuss whether there's an agreement to do so however.

I perhaps pointed out the wrong line here - there's earlier lines saying that disabled formulae can't be removed even manually before the 1 year is up.

Author: > This seems like a good PR to discuss whether there's an agreement to do so however.

I'd love to get this PR shipped sooner rather than later once it's correct and then we can iterate further on future PRs.

> I perhaps pointed out the wrong line here - there's earlier lines saying that disabled formulae can't be removed even manually before the 1 year is up (except for unpopular formulae which is 3 months).

Could you suggest a wording change?

Reviewer 4: > Could you suggest a wording change?

It's on unchanged lines, and GitHub doesn't support that.

But it's a `s/a year/six months/` if agreed on.
